= KBook Creator

by Rolando Abarca M.
m @ rolando.cl

Simple kindle e-book creator. This is a WIP

== How to Make it Work

1. Download the Rakefile from this repo to a new directory (where your book will be)

  http://github.com/funkaster/kbook_creator/raw/master/Rakefile

2. Run the prepare task

  rake prepare

3. Write your book using the kbook-format (inspired in rdoc). Store your chapters/files on the source directory

4. Modify the config.yaml to suit your needs

5. Build the HTML

  rake html

== KBook-Format

It's inspired in rdoc, here's a basic list of commands. Feel free to add new features (everything should be packed inside creator.rb)

This is the list of the current start-of-line commands (for these to work, the command should be the first character on the line).

[#] Chapter Title. This should be the first line of your chapter. It can only appear once in every chapter.
[=] Header. The number of '=' indicates the corresponding level. From h1 to h6. This also creates entries in the Table of Contents.
[*] Unordered list. The list continues until it finds a blank line or a line that does not start with a '*'.
[-] a simple div tag. The div continues being the default container until another "-" is found.
[:] End of chapter (a centered h1 with a "* * *" in it)

Inline formatting:

<code>_word_</code>:: Translates to <code>em</code> tags.
<code>\*word\*</code>:: Translates to <code>strong</code> tags.
<code>[+,footnote text]</code>:: Creates a new footnote. The numbering is automatically assigned and all footnotes are placed at the end of the chapter.
<code>[@,link,<text>]</code>:: Creates a link. Text is optional, otherwise it just puts the hyperlink as the text of the link.

== Requirements

You need ruby and a kindlegen command line installed somewhere on your system.
You can get kindlegen cli from amazon's website

  http://www.amazon.com/gp/feature.html?ie=UTF8&docId=1000234621

After downloading/installing, you need to modify the Rakefile in order to make the KINDLE_GEN variable point to the location where you installed the kindlegen binary.

== TODO

* Test it a bit more
* Merge changes back to master branch
* Separate definitions of footnotes, i.e. use just <code>[\d+]</code> to create an empty footnote and then define the text using <code>[\d+]: footnote text here</code>

== History

[v1.0-RC1 - 2010-10-20] First public version.